About
Data from multiple programmes and projects who used the ELOM tools were collated, spanning from 2019-2022. You can view the different data sources and collection methods in a PDF in the download section.

There are 8 665 children in the train and 3 600 in test.

In this competition, we aim to use machine learning techniques to identify factors of early learning programmes that contribute to better learning outcomes in children. While predicting the child’s ELOM score and the top 15 predictors for each child.

The final merged dataset consisted of 12 265 children across 2 217 facilities. Table X below provides a summary of the data included in the meta-dataset. The first column indicates the data source, and the remainder of the columns show the different types of tools or data collected and the number of children we have data for across these sets of variables. An “X” indicates that the data was not collected at all.

The Thrive by Five Index (2021) found that less than half of children attending an early learning programme (such as a preschool or creche) in South Africa start school with the right early learning foundation. There are many factors that influence whether a child Thrives by Five, such as access to a quality early learning programme, as well as poverty, gender, malnutrition, and emotional well-being. Children without a good foundation struggle to keep up at school and have a major learning disadvantage.

The Index used the Early Learning Outcomes Measure (ELOM) to assess children, and categorises their development as either “on track”, “falling behind” or “falling far behind”.

In this competition, your challenge is to use machine learning techniques to identify which early learning programme factors contribute to better learning outcomes in children, by predicting a child’s ELOM score.

This will allow DataDrive2030 to design better interventions that make optimal use of limited resources to ensure South Africa’s children are thriving.

About DataDrive2030 (datadrive2030.co.za)


Established in March 2022, DataDrive2030 is a South African based social enterprise that supports the collection and use of high quality data to drive improved child outcomes in the first 6 years of life. Our suite of early learning measurement tools accurately measure a range of developmental outcomes in young children, and provide an indication of the quality of the early learning environment in home and programme settings. Tools are digitised and designed for affordable use at scale in all official South African languages, with built-in data quality assurance mechanisms.

We aim to make these tools widely accessible, and to ensure that the information that is generated is easily understandable and most importantly, is actionable. Using data, our goal is to drive tangible improvements in early childhood development services in South Africa, by 2030.